data tiering (#2680)
timescale/docs: use-timescale/data-tiering/querying-tiered-data.md

---
title: Querying Tiered Data
excerpt: How to query tiered data
product: [ cloud ]
keywords: [ data tiering, tiering ]
tags: [ storage, data management ]
---

# Querying tiered data

<!-- vale Google.Acronyms = NO -->

Once rarely used data is tiered and migrated to low cost object storage it can still be queried with standard SQL by
enabling the `timescaledb.enable_tiered_reads` GUC. 

The `timescaledb.enable_tiered_reads` GUC, or Grand Unified Configuration variable, is a setting that controls if tiered data is queried. 
The configuration variable can be set at different levels, including globally for the entire database server, for individual databases, and for individual sessions.

<!-- vale Google.Acronyms = YES -->

<Highlight type="warning">

> By default tiered data is not queried. Querying tiered data may slow down query performance as the data is not stored locally.     

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, tiered data is not accessed by queries. Querying tiered data may slow down query performance as the data is not stored locally.     
```

</Highlight>

<Procedure>

### Querying tiered data in a single query

1. Enable `timescaledb.enable_tiered_reads` before querying the hypertable with tiered data and reset it after it is complete:

```sql
set timescaledb.enable_tiered_reads = true; SELECT count(*) FROM example; set timescaledb.enable_tiered_reads = false;
```

This queries data from all chunks including tiered chunks and non tiered chunks: 

   ```sql
   ||count|
   |---|
   |1000|
   ```

</Procedure>

### Querying tiered data for an entire session

All future queries within a session can be enabled to use data tiering by enabling `timescaledb.enable_tiered_reads` within a session. 

<Procedure>

1. Enable `timescaledb.enable_tiered_reads` for an entire session:

```sql
set timescaledb.enable_tiered_reads to true;
```

1. All future queries in that session are configured to read from tiered data and locally stored data.    

</Procedure>

### Querying tiered data in all future sessions

You can also enable queries to read from tiered data always by following these steps:

<Procedure>

1. Enable `timescaledb.enable_tiered_reads` for all future sessions:

```sql

> alter database tsdb set timescaledb.enable_tiered_reads to true;

Reviewer: Need to verify this and correct, if needed, either in this PR or as part of a follow up PR.

```

1.  In all future created sessions, timescaledb.enable_tiered_reads initializes with enabled. 

</Procedure>

## Performance considerations

Queries over tiered data is expected to be slower than over local data. However, in a limited number of scenarios data tiering can impact queries over local data as well. 

> * Using `count(*)` is very fast on tiered data, as the number of rows cannot change since the data is immutable and is known beforehand.

Reviewer: count(*) is a corner case. Lets not add it to the docs. Please remove.
